Are you retired? Approaching retirement? Ever dream about taking a cruise, a really long cruise? Listen up: Viking just announced what has been billed as the “longest-ever continuous world cruise” in the industry.The Viking Ultimate World Cruise is a 245-day journey spanning 6 continents, 59 countries and 113 ports. Passengers depart from London on August 31, 2019, circumavigate the globe and return to London eight months later.Guests will set sail on the Viking Sun, a 930-passenger luxury ship built in 2017, the newest ship in the Viking ocean-going fleet. (The cruise line also operates three sister ships: Viking Star, Viking Sea and Viking Sky).Although many other cruise lines offer “world cruises,” most are typically around 90 to 120 days in length, often broken into 20- to 30-day segments that allow new passengers to arrive as others disembark. This much longer Viking itinerary has two very long segments (127 and 119 days, respectively).The Ultimate World Cruise allows for overnight stops in 22 cities around the globe so travelers can truly immerse themselves in different cultures. As is the policy on all Viking Cruises, guests are offered a complimentary shore excursion at each port in addition to optional (at-cost) ones promising even more in-depth insights into people and places.“We received resounding feedback from guests on our first sold-out World Cruise who wanted to experience the cultures of the world in-depth, over an extended period of time, while sailing onboard a ship that was designed for discovery with all the comforts of home,” says Richard Marnell, the line's senior vice president of marketing.While the experience is priceless, taking a world cruise represents a considerable commitment in terms of both time and money. Given their length, they tend to be popular among retirees and/or location-independent employees who don’t have to juggle work with caregiving responsibilities for children or aging parents.Some sociologists consider a world cruise (like a tour of national parks, a safari or other once-in-a-lifetime trip) as a rite of passage associated with retirement.“When people embark on retirement, they often announce a 'big trip' that signals their freedom from everyday work schedules and a new ability to come and go,” says David J. Ekerdt, Ph.D., Professor of Sociology and Gerontology at the University of Kansas.“Even later in retirement—and I have seen this among retirees in Asia and Europe, too—trips and travel continue to be major events that people schedule for themselves, Ekerdt adds.Of course, a “big trip” can also be a “big splurge.” Itineraries and prices for world cruises vary widely although the Viking Ultimate World Cruise is competitively priced, starting at $92,990 per person (a little over $379 a day). The cruise line offers two shorter segments for those who don’t want to travel as long or spend as much money.Viking World Treasures, starting at $47,995 per person, is a 127-day sailing from London to Los Angeles, visiting 33 countries and 61 ports. Viking World Wonders, starting at $45,995 per person, is a 119-day sailing from Los Angeles to London that visits 29 countries and 55 ports.Prices for world cruises vary by line, itinerary and stateroom category. But it’s common for most to offer special incentives and freebies for those embarking on lengthy cruises. These often include free or discounted airfare, pre-cruise hotel stays, laundry services, Wi-Fi, shore excursions and loyalty credits.In addition to free shore excursions, the three Viking world cruises offer perks that include Business Class international air, transfers to and from the ship, free unlimited Wi-Fi, 24-hour room service, free access to the thermal suite and fitness center, all gratuities and service fees, three complimentary visa services, free luggage shipping and a premium beverage package.World cruises are relatively few in number and tend to get booked almost as soon as they’re announced.However, before you dive into a world cruise make sure you read the fine print and understand what is included and what isn’t. If you’ve never cruised before, it’s prudent to take a shorter cruise before you embark on a lengthy one. Read reviews to determine whether the ambiance of the cruise line, the itinerary and options for shore excursions suit your sensibilities.Viking Cruises has won many accolades. Among them, it was recognized by Cruise Critic in its 2018 Cruisers’ Choice Awards as “Best Overall” small-medium size ship. Of note: Viking doesn’t allow children under the age of 18, has no butlers, no casinos and doesn’t promise glitz. But it does offer relaxed, spacious all-veranda accommodations; a choice of eight dining options; and copious onboard and offshore opportunities for cultural enrichment.